>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
now let's try our insert.
So somethings I want to keep in
mind is we need to update head and
tail as needed, like they gave
out when we need to do that.
It seems like we don't really need
to update the head when we insert,
because we already initialized
the very first one.
That's the only time
when I would think like,
okay we need to update the head
on the insert is if head is null.
So we don't really need to do that.
So I'll just delete that for now.
And then we can say update tail.
And then as needed I think every time we
insert we're gonna need to update that
tail reference, okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
so then we want to say
something like this dot tail.
This dot tail,
so we can say
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we can initialize our node.
We can also do things like, make a little
baby node constructor here where we can
construct these nodes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's okay.
The reason that would be nice is for
example,
what if you wanted to make
this a doubly linked list?
If our node constructor was just in
one place we'd only need to change,
we'd only need to add the previous
to that node constructor versus here
we would have to change it in both places
and we'd just have to remember that.
So that's another thing that you can
bring up as you're coding just kind of
the implications of the decisions
that you're making the pros and cons.
In this case I'm just trying to save time.
But I'm aware,
I want you guys to be aware that maybe
there is a better way of doing that.
Okay, so now we need to update the tail.
So we need to say this dot tail
dot next equals node, okay?
And then-
>> Speaker 2: That's what the updating
the null, so then you know it,
the reference.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so
what we're doing there
is-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: When
we look at our little guy right here.
So we start off.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like
this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This
is not the right one.
We start off like this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we start off with the head and the tail,
the reason I'm doing it on the tail
is because the head and
the tail aren't always gonna be the same.
So while I'm updating this to our next one
which really is going to update both,
because of our bi-reference.
The property of bi-reference.
It's going to update both.
So when I say this dot next dot node.
I'm adding this node to the next and since
it's both we don't need to update both.
Because it's the same
object that we're mutating.
>> Speaker 3: But the tail is no longer
the same node anymore.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
>> Speaker 3: Is that what we are going
to do?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so
that is the next step.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So now, our tail is
pointing to the wrong thing and
we need to update the tail.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To the node.
So now, what we did is we,
so we updated what
was the tail happens to also be the head.
So we updated both
because of bi-reference.
Then we updated this to
the new value I guess
probably wasn't three,
but let's say it was.
And so now the new tail is three,
but our heads stays the same so
when we're traversing through this we
start with the head it has a value and
it has a next that points to the next
one that happens to be the tail.
But as we grow this right, the next might
not be the tail anymore and you know,
you can keep traversing through it.
>> Speaker 3: So
why do you do the this dot
tail dot next equals node as
opposed to the this dot
head dot next equals node?
What is the benefit?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
just here it says it inserts a new
value to the end of the link list.
So this method is always gonna insert to
the end and the head is at the beginning.
So that's why we're doing it that way.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So when you're
implementing this kind of thing,
that's something to ask your interviewer.
Like when you insert there are different
ways you could do an insert.
You can insert it like before the head,
you can insert it at
the end you can insert it.
You can pass a node and
insert it after that node, so
there are all these different
ways you can go about it.
So you can ask specifically
what they expect when you
insert.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
so some other things validate the input or
stuff like that.
Okay, so
let's we wanna test our handy work.
So we expect it to look
something like this,
let's run it of course I'm
gonna consul logging in.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
our next is pointing to the second one and
our tail is now on the second one.
So that's what we want.
Any questions about how we arrived here?
>> Speaker 2: I
wanna see the next one cuz I'm still-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: That whole next
pointing to node is not quite clicking.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So now we have our third value.
Starting to get pretty nasty here
let me make it a little bigger.
So we have our head push
through our value 1.
Our next is the 2 and the next next
is a 3, but it is not printing out.
Then our tail is 3, which points
nothing because it is the tail.
The tail will always point to null.
If we wanted to look at a picture,
so here's our head,
here's our value that's always
gonna point to the next node.
And then if you wanna go even
more in depth we can look at our,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This visualizer, so
when you insert, so
here's an insert after tale and
so we're expecting to insert after 89.
So you see it created the node.
It changed the pointer here.
This is going to point to null still.
>> Speaker 2: So that's what we're doing.
We're adding a [INAUDIBLE].